1.	Creating Master Data Directly in the System
0.	Load the data. Creating Master Data Directly in the System
1.	Loading Master Data for Characteristic "Product"
2.	Loading Transaction Data
3.	Dene a query that is used as the basis for a Web application and allows for an ad-hoc analysis of the data in the Web.
4.	You create the query in the following step:
5.	Dening Queries
6.	Create a Web application with navigation options and functions, such as printing based on the query.
7.	You create the Web application in the following step:
8.	Creating Web Applications
9.	Analyze the data in the Web application, add comments to it, and broadcast it by E-mail to other employees.
10.	You analyze and broadcast the data in the following steps:
11.	Analyzing Data in the Web Application
12.	Broadcasting Web Applications by E-Mail

2.	Log onto the BI system
1.	Log onto the BI system with a user that has sufficient authorizations for executing the scenario. 
2.	Start the Data Warehousing Workbench in the SAP menu by choosing Modeling Data Warehousing Workbench: Modeling. 
3.	Under Modeling, choose Info  Objects. The Info  Object tree is displayed. 
4.	From the context menu at the root node Info Objects of the Info Object tree, choose Create Info Area. 
5.	On the next screen, enter a technical name and a description for the Info Area. The Info Area is displayed in the Info Object tree. 
6.	It is used to group your Info Objects.  
7.	In the context menu of the Info Area, choose Create Info Object Catalog.
8.	On the next screen, enter a technical name and description, and select Key Figure as the Info Object Type.
9.	Choose Create9. Activate the Info Object catalog. 
10.	The Info Object catalog is displayed in your Info Area. 
11.	It is used to group your key gures. 
12.	Perform the following procedures to create each of the key gures Revenue ,Quantity and Price 




3.	Creating Data sources for Master Data of Characteristic "Product"

1. You are in the Modeling functional area of the Data Warehousing Workbench
2. Choose Info Provider. The Info Provider tree is displayed. The Info Area created previously in the Info Object tree is also displayed in the Info Provider tree. It contains the characteristics that were dened as Info Provider and is used to group further objects. 
3. In the context menu of the Info Area, choose Create Info Cube. 
4. In the next screen, enter ZD_SALES as the technical name under Info Cube and Sales Overview as the description. 
5. Select Standard Info Cube as Info Provider Type and choose Create. You go to the screen for Info Cube editing. 
6. Choose Create New Dimensions in the context menu of the folder Dimensions. 7. Enter Product as the description for the new dimension and choose Create Another Dimension. 
8. Enter Sales Organization as the description for the new dimension and choose Continue. The dimensions are inserted. 
9. In the toolbar in the left area, choose Info Object Catalog. 
10. On the next screen, select your Info Object catalog for characteristics as the template and choose Continue. The Info Object catalog is displayed in the left area with the characteristics you created. 
11. Assign the characteristics to the dimensions as follows with drag and drop:
12. Choose Info Object Direct Input in the context menu of the dimension Sales Organization. 
13. On the next screen, enter the characteristic 0DOC_NUMBER ( Sales Document ) and choose Continue. The characteristic Sales Document is a shipped Info Object of BI Content. 
14. Expand the folder Navigation Attributes. Activate the navigation attribute Product Group (ZD_PROD__ZDPGROUP) by setting the indicator in column On/Off。




4.	Creating Transformations
0 Creating Transformations for Master Data of Characteristic "Product"
1. You are in the Modeling functional area of the Data Warehousing Workbench. 
2. Choose Data sources. 
3. From the toolbar in the right screen area, choose Choose Source System. 
4. In the menu option File, select the source system with the technical name PC_FILE. A hierarchical tree of the Data sources for this source system is displayed. The Data sources are structured semantically by application component. 5. Select Create application component... from the context menu at the root node of the Data source tree. 
6. On the next screen, enter a technical name and a description for the application component. The application component is used to group your Data sources for this scenario. 
7. In the context menu of your application component, choose Create Data source. 8. Enter the required data on the next screen.
9. Choose Transfer. The Data source maintenance screen appears. 10. Enter the required data on the tab page General Info .




5.	Creating Master Data Directly in the System
1. In the Modeling area of the Data Warehousing Workbench, choose Info Objects. 2. In the Info Object catalog for characteristics, choose Maintain master data from the context menu of your Info Object Product Group (ZD_PGROUP).
3. Choose Execute. 
4. Choose Create. 
5. Enter DS10 as Product Group and Computer as the Short description and choose Continue. 
6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 with the following values:
7. Save your entries and return to the Info Object tree. 
8. Repeat steps 2-7 for the characteristic Channel (ZD_CHAN) with the following values:


6.	Loading Master Data forCharacteristic "Product"
Go to the Data Warehousing Workbench; 
in the Modeling area choose Info Provider. The attributes and texts are displayed with transformation and Data source in your Info Area below the characteristic Product.
3. Perform the following steps, rst for the attributes of the characteristic and then for the texts of the characteristic. 
4. From the context menu of the Data source, choose Create Info Package... 
5. On the next screen, enter a description for the Info Package and choose Save. The Info Package maintenance screen for the scheduler appears. 
6. Go to the tab page Schedule and choose Start.
7. To check the load process, choose Monitor in the toolbar of the Info Package maintenance screen.
8 On the next screen, select the date and choose Execute. The monitor for the load process is displayed.
9 Select the load process for your Data source from the tree at the left of the screen.




7.	Loading Transaction Data
1. Go to the Data Warehousing Workbench; in the Modeling area choose Info Provider. The transformation and the Data source are displayed in the Info Area below the Info Cube Sales Overview. 
2. In the context menu of the Data source, choose Create Info Package... 
3. On the next screen, enter a description for the Info Package and choose Save. The Info Package maintenance screen for the scheduler appears. 
4. Go to the tab page Schedule and choose Start. 
5. To check the load process, choose Monitor in the toolbar of Info Package maintenance. 
6. On the next screen, select the date and choose Execute. The monitor for the load process is displayed. 
7. Select the load process for your Data source from the tree at the left of the screen.
8. Exit the Info Package maintenance screen. 
9. From the context menu of the Data source, choose Create Data Transfer Process.... The system displays a generated description, the type, source and target of the data transfer process. 
10. Choose Continue. 
11. The data transfer process maintenance screen appears. 
12. Go to tab page Extraction and select extraction mode Full. 
13. Activate the data transfer process. 
14. Go to tab page Execute and choose Execute.





8.	Dening Queries
1. Start the BEx Query Designer by choosing Start Programs Business Explorer Query Designer. 
2. Log on to the BI system. 
3. In the toolbar, choose New Query... 
4. Choose Find. 
5. Enter ZD_SALES as the search string in the upper empty eld, select Search in Technical Name and deselect Search in Description. 
6. Choose Find. Info Cube ZD_SALES is displayed in the lower empty eld
7. Select the Info Cube ZD_SALES and choose Open. The data of Info Cube Sales Overview (ZD_SALES) is displayed in the left part of the Info Provider screen of the Query Designer.




9.	Creating Web Applications
1. Start the BEx Web application by choosing Start Programs Business Explorer Web Application Designer. 
2. Log onto the BI system.
3. In the initial screen of the Web Application Designer, click on the link Create New Blank Web Template. 
4. In the lower part of the layout view choose New Data Provider. 
5. In the dialog box for the data provider type select Query and enter the name of the query ZD_SALES_2007 in the eld following Query. 
6. Choose OK.
7. The data provider is displayed in the lower part of the layout view in the Web Application Designer




10.	Analyzing Data in the Web Application
1. Since you are interested in the revenue, you want to sort the revenue data. 
2. Click on the arrows in the Revenue eld to sort the revenue data in increasing or decreasing order. 
3. You can also sort the revenue by clicking the alternative mouse button on Revenue and choosing Sort Sort Increasing or Sort Decreasing in the context menu. You see that the greatest revenue is obtained with the distribution channel Internet. 
4. To see the differences in the revenue data for the months July, August and September, select rst 08.2007 and then 07.2007 in the dropdown box Calendar Year/Month. You see that the revenue data for the distribution channel Internet increased greatly. The marketing campaign for the Internet shop was apparently successful. 
5. Filter the data back to September by selecting 09.2007 in the dropdown box. 
6. To add a comment to the Web application about the successful increase in revenue using the Internet, create an appropriate document. At the subtotal of the distribution channel Internet (567.308,05) choose Documents Create New Comment in the context menu. 
7. Enter a name and description for the document. 
8. Enter a text and choose Save




11.	Broadcasting Web Applications by E-Mail
1. In the Web application, click on Send. The Broadcasting Wizard appears; it guides you step-by-step through the required settings. 
2. Select output format MHTML. The system creates an MHTML le. All components (HTML, style sheet, pictures, and so on) of the entire HTML page are in one le. This output format is suitable if you want to generate one single document and broadcast it by e-mail or to the portal.
3. Choose Continue. 
4. Enter the e-mail addresses of the recipients, separated with semicolons. 
5. Enter a subject line and text, and dene the importance of the e-mail
6. Choose Execute.


12.	Set granular application rights to various functions within LifeCycle
Manager.
1. Log into CMC and select Applications.
2. Double-click LifeCycle Manager.
3. Click User Security, and select Administrators.The View Security tab is enabled.
4. Select the rights you want to set.You can set the following rights:
• Create a job
• Edit a job
• Promote a job
• Export a BIAR file
• Edit a BIAR file
• Delete a job
• Rollback a job
• Use Administration options
• Edit Connections properties
• Use Version Management System
5. Click OK.

13.	promote a job when the source and the destination systems are connected, complete the following steps:
1. Connect to the source system.
2. Create a new job. You can also copy an existing job.
3. Add infoobjects to the job you want to promote. If you do not want to promote all the dependents of the infoobjects, you can use the Manage Dependencies option to select the dependents you want to promote.
Note:
You can select the type of dependents you want to promote from the Type drop-down list.
4. Promote the job.
Promoting a job when the source system and the destination system are not connected
18 To promote a job when the source and the destination systems are not connected, complete the following steps:
1. Connect to the source system, and create a job. You can also copy an existing job.
2. Add infoobjects to the job you want to promote. You can use the Manage Dependencies option to select the required dependents.
Note:
You can select the type of dependents you want to promote from the
Type drop-down list.
3. Export infoobjects with Output to BIAR file as the destination system.
4. Import infoobjects from the BIAR file by clicking the Import BIAR tab.
5. Promote the job.


14.	log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
To log into the LifeCycle Manager tool, complete the following steps:
1. Select Start > Programs > BusinessObjects XI 3.1 > BusinessObjects Enterprise > BusinessObjects LifeCycle Manager. The LifeCycle Manager login screen appears.
2. In the System field, enter the name of the Central Management Server (CMS) on which the LifeCycle Manager tool is installed.
3. Enter the user name and password.
4. Select the appropriate authentication method from the Authentication drop-down list.
The LifeCycle Manager tool supports the following authentication types:
• Enterprise authentication - This authentication type requires a user name and a password that are recognized by the BusinessObjects Enterprise system. This is the default authentication method.
• LDAP authentication - This authentication type requires a user name and a password that are recognized by the BusinessObjects Enterprise system.
• Windows AD - This authentication type requires a user name and a password that are recognized by the BusinessObjects Enterprise system.
The LDAP, Windows AD, and other third-party authentication types require a special setup. For information on setting up these authentication types, see the BusinessObjects Enterprise Administrator's Guide.
5. Click Log on.

15.	use the Manage Systems option
To add a host system, complete the following steps:
1. In the "Administration Options" window, click Manage Systems.
The list of host names, port numbers, display names, and descriptions is
displayed.
2. Click Add.
The "Add System" dialog box appears.
3. Add the host name, port number, display name, and the description in
the appropriate fields.
4. Click Add to add the system.
The host system is added to the list.

16.	Set the ClearCase version management system in Windows
1. In the "Administration Options" window, click VMS Settings.
2. From the Version Management Systems drop-down list, select
ClearCase.
3. Enter the following details:
• ClearCase Map Drive - Enter the drive name. By default, it is the M
drive. For example: M:
• VOB Tag Name - Enter the Versioned Object Base (VOB) name. For
example: FridayVB
• View Storage Directory - Enter the path to the shared folder. For
example: \\HostName\FolderName
Note:
The host name must not be written as localhost.
1.	Click Save.


17.	set the ClearCase version management system in Unix
1. In the Administration Options window, click VMS Settings.
2. From the Version Management Systems drop-down list, select ClearCase.
3. Enter the following details:
• ClearCase Map Drive - Enter the name of the folder where the MVFS
is located. By default, it is /view
• VOB Tag Name - Enter the VOB name and the folder where the VOB
is located. For example: VobFolder/VobName
• View Storage Directory: Enter the path of the directory where the views
are created.

23
18.	specify the number of jobs that must be displayed in the "Promotion
Jobs" screen. You can also view jobs that were created during a particular
time interval.
To set preferences, complete the following steps:
1. In the "Promotion Jobs" screen, click the Preferences link.
The "Preferences" window appears.
2. In the "Enter the Maximum Page Size" dialog box, specify the number of
objects that must be displayed per page in the "Promotion Jobs" screen.
3. From the Show Jobs Created drop-down list, select the time interval to
view the jobs created during the specified period.
4. Click OK.


19.	create a new job by using the LifeCycle Manager tool
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, click New Job. The "New Job"
window appears .
3. Enter the name, description, and keywords for the job in the appropriate
fields.
4. In the Save Job in field, browse and select the folder in which you want
to save the job.
5. Select the source system and the destination system from the drop-down
lists.
If the name of the system is not displayed in the drop-down list, click the
Login to a new CMS option. A new window is launched. Enter the name
of the system along with the user name and password.
6. Click Create.

20.	log into a new CMS
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. Create a new job.
For more information on creating a new job, see Creating a New Job on
page 37.
3. From the Source System drop-down list, select Login to a New CMS.
The "Login to System" dialog box appears.
4. Enter the user credentials, select the appropriate authentication type, and
click Login.
5. From the Destination System drop-down list, select Login to a New
CMS.
6. Enter the user credentials, select the appropriate authentication type, and
click Login.

21.	create a new job by copying an existing job.
To create a new job by copying an existing job, complete the following steps:
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, click New Job.
3. Click the Copy an Existing Job option. The list of jobs in the Promotion
Job folder is displayed
4. Select a job from the job list, and click Create. The name, keywords, and description of the job are displayed. You can modify these fields, if required. However, you cannot change the source system.
5. In the Save Job in field, browse and select the folder in which you want to save the job, and click Create.A new job is created.


22.	manage dependencies of an infoobject
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. Create a new job. For information on creating a new job, see Creating a
New Job on page 37.
3. Add the required infoobjects to the new job.
4. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, click Manage Dependencies. The "Manage Dependencies" window appears. This window displays the list of infoobjects and their dependents, as shown in the following figure:
5. From the Select Dependents drop-down list, select any of the options available to add the dependents to the job. The dependents are displayed on the right side. The dependents are not selected by default; you must explicitly select the dependents you want to promote. For example, if you select All Universes from the Select Dependents drop-down list, then all the universes included in the list of dependents
are automatically selected.
6. Click to view the supported filtering options of infoobjects in the drop-down list. Select an option, and click OK. The filtered infoobjects are displayed.
7. Click Apply Changes to update the list of dependents.
8. Click Apply Changes and Close to save the changes

23.	promote a job
Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, select the job that you want to promote. You can also right-click the home page screen, and click Promote.
3. From the source and the destination systems drop-down lists, select the source and destination systems.
Note:
Ensure that you have logged into both the source and destination systems before you proceed with the promotion process.
4. In the External Change Management ID field, enter the appropriate value, and click Save.
5. Click Mappings. Click Edit Mappings if you want to create and validate mappings.
6. Click Security Settings, if required. The following options are displayed:
• Do not Promote Security - This is the default option.
• Promote Security - Use this option to promote jobs along with the
associated security rights.
• Include application rights - This option is enabled only if you select Promote Security. If the objects in the job inherit any application rights, the job is promoted along with these rights. You can also click View Security to view the security dependencies of the infoobjects in the job.
7. Click Test Promote to ensure that there is no conflict between CUIDs in the source and destination systems. The promotion details are displayed. The first column displays the objects to be promoted, and the second column displays the promotion status. The LifeCycle Manager tool classifies the selected objects into users, groups, universes, and so on.
Note:
Running the Test Promote feature does not commit any infoobjects for promotion. The result of a test promote can be any of the following:
• Overwritten - The infoobject in the destination is overwritten by the infoobject in the source system.
• Mapped - The following infoobject types are mapped to the destination system: folders, users, user groups, and custom roles. An infoobject is mapped to the destination system and promoted only if the Security option is enabled. Otherwise, the infoobject is not promoted.
• Copied - The infoobject in the source system is copied to the destination system.
• Dropped - The infoobject is not promoted from the source system to the destination system.
• Warning - The infoobject in the destination system is the newer version and you can remove the infoobject from the Job. However, if you want to promote, the infoobject gets promoted.
8. Click Schedule Job if you want to schedule the job promotion.
9. Click Promote.

24.	Mapping a connection.
To map a connection, complete the following steps:
1. In the "Promote" window, click Mappings.
2. Click Edit Mappings.
The following tabs are displayed:
• Connection Mappings
• QaaWS Mappings
• Crystal Report Mappings
• Federation Mappings
3. Click the Connection Mappings tab. The source connections and the database types are displayed. If you want to edit the properties of a source connection, select the source connection, and click Edit Connection Properties. The "Edit Connection Properties" tab appears. This tab displays the list of properties and their values. Modify the values per your requirements, and click Apply. The "Connection Mappings" tab appears.
4. From the Destination Connection drop-down list, select a destination connection for the selected source connection.
5. Click Apply.
25.	map a QaaWS
1. In the "Promote" window, click Mappings.
2. Click Edit Mappings.
The following tabs are displayed:
• Connection Mappings
• QaaWS Mappings
• Crystal Report Mappings
• Federation Mappings
3. Click QaaWS Mappings.
The source URL and the Query as a Web Service types are displayed. If you want to edit the properties of the source URL, select the source URL, and click Edit QaaWs Properties. The Edit QaaWS Properties
tab appears. This tab displays the list of properties and their values. Modify the values per your requirements, and click Apply. The QaaWS Mappings tab appears.
Note:
If you edit the source URL, the destination field displays the following message: Edited Source URL
4. From the Destination URL drop-down list, select a destination URL for the selected source URL.
If you want to reset the modifications made to the destination URL, click the icon.
5. Click Apply.

26.	modify the properties of a Crystal report
1. In the "Promote" window, click Mappings.
2. Click Crystal Report Mappings.
The list of Crystal reports in the source system is displayed.
3. Select the required Crystal report, and click Edit Crystal Report Properties. The "Edit Crystal Report Properties" tab appears, as shown in the following figure: This tab displays the list of properties and their values.
4. Modify the appropriate fields, and click Apply. The Crystal Report Mappings tab appears.
Note:
• If you edit a Crystal report in the source system, the following message is displayed beside the Crystal report: edited
• A Crystal Report created using Universes cannot be mapped in the Crystal Report Mappings. However, it can be mapped in the Connections Mappings.
• Crystal Reports are grouped based on the same servers. You can either map a single Crystal Report or the group,. However, you cannot map multiple Crystal reports at the same time.
5. Click Save or Promote per your requirements。

27.	map a Federation connection
1. In the "Promote" window, click Mappings.
2. Click Federation Mappings.
The list of Federation connections is displayed.
3. Select a Federation connection, and click Edit Federation Connection Properties. The "Edit Federation Connection Properties" tab appears. This tab displays the list of properties and their values.
4. Modify the appropriate fields, and click Apply. The "Federation Mappings" tab appears.
Note:
If you edit a Federation connection in the source system, the following
message is displayed beside the federation connection: edited
5. Click Save or Promote as per your requirement. Important: Mapping must be performed by an expert user who has adequate knowledge of the artefacts in both source and destination systems.
28.	Exporting a Job to a BIAR File
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool, and create a new job. For more information on creating a new job, see Creating a New Job on page 37
2. In the Destination System drop-down list, select Output to a BIAR file option and click Create.
3. Click Add objects to add infoobjects to the job. You can use the Manage Dependencies option to manage the dependencies of the selected job.
4. Click Promote.
The "Promote - Job Name" screen appears.
5. Click Export.
The BIAR file is created. You can save a BIAR file to a File System or an FTP location.
6. In the "Promote - Job Name"screen, click Biar File Destination. Biar File Destination pane appears.
7. Select either File System or FTP.
8. To export the BIAR file to a file system, select File System and click Export. The BIAR file is exported to a file system.
9. To export the BIAR file to an FTP location, select FTP. Enter appropriate details in the host, port, username, password, directory, and filename fields.
10. Click Export.
The BIAR file is exported to an FTP location.
29.	Importing a Job from a BIAR File
1. From the storage device, copy the BIAR file to the destination system.
2. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
3. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, click Import BIAR. The "Import BIAR file" window appears.
4. Click Browse to select a BIAR file from the file system.
5. Select the BIAR file from the file system, and click Copy. The details of the selected file appear in the "New Job" screen.
6. Click Create.
The job is created. You can also manage the dependencies of the job in the "Managing Dependencies" window.
7. Click Promote.
The "Promote - Job Name" window appears.
8. Confirm the login credentials of the destination system.
9. Click Promote to promote the contents to the destination system You can also click the Test Promote option to view the objects to be promoted and the promotion status.
 
30.	Creating a New Job
1. Log into the LifeCycle Manager tool.
2. In the "Promotion Jobs" home page, click New Job. The "New Job"window appears .
3. Enter the name, description, and keywords for the job in the appropriate fields.
4. In the Save Job in field, browse and select the folder in which you want to save the job.
5. Select the source system and the destination system from the drop-down lists. If the name of the system is not displayed in the drop-down list, click the Login to a new CMS option. A new window is launched. Enter the name of the system along with the user name and password.
6. Click Create.